This file describes difficulty scaling and how bots should have their difficulty rated.

IMPORTANT NOTE:
This file is a set of general guidelines. It is NOT a substitute for actual playtesting.
No matter what features a bot may have, it MUST be assigned difficulty based on the results of actual games played against it.


COMPOSITE DIFFICULTY SCORES:
This rubric is to be used to determine a bot's general difficulty rating before playtesting assigns a final rating.
Parts of this rubric require test games to ensure that bot logic functions as intended.

Scores are notated in the following manners:
x/y/z - tactics score of x, strategy score of y, computation score of z
any of x, y, z may be '_' indicating that any partial score may be used
any of x, y, z may be inequalities (eg. 1/1/<2)
any of x, y, z may be ranges (eg. 1-4)

xy/z - composite tactics/strategy score of xy, computation score of z
any of xy, z may be '_'
any of xy, z may be inequalities
any of xy, z may be ranges
The composite tactics/strategy score is obtained by the following formula:
x + y*2

The singular composite score is obtained by the following formula:
floor((x + y*1.5 + 0.5) * sqrt(z) * 10)

TACTICS:
tactics are defined as algorithmic move sequences that apply to predetermined piece patterns
0 is assigned for bots without tactics
1 is assigned for basic tactics
- Taking open corners
- Corner defense
- 1D stalemating
2 is assigned for standard tactics
- Doubling up
- Blocking opponent doubling up
3 is assigned for advanced tactics
- Forced corner win
- Avoiding opponent forced corner win
- Extending sequence for opponent forced corner win

STRATEGY:
strategy is defined as heuristics based decision making styles
0 is assigned for bots with trivial/no strategies
- Topple whenever possible
- Gain as much territory per turn as possible
1 is assigned for bots with basic strategies
- Don't make moves that give the opponent territory for free
- Don't add pieces to tiles next to opponent volatiles
2 is assigned for bots with standard strategies
- Make moves specifically for purposes of attack/defense
3 is assigned for bots with advanced strategies
- Vihaan please define

COMPUTATION:
computation is defined as the computational bounds of the bot
0 is assigned to bots that execute hard coded move sequences
- A computation score of 0 definitionally causes all other partial scores to also be 0
1 is assigned to bots that look only at the current board state
X is assigned to all other bots, where X is the bot's maximum search depth



BOT DIFFICULTY LEVELS:

Trivial (0/0/0):
easiest possible difficulty level, completely new players should have no trouble.
this level is meant for tutorial bots (eg. those that execute preprogrammed moves only to demonstrate mechanics).
it is recommended that tutorial bots always have at least a Beginner variant so they aren't wasted.
EX: Terry Topple (Trivial)

Beginner (0/0/1):
a bit harder than trivial, but still easy, a player with a basic grasp of mechanics will find this appropriate.
this is meant for early stage bots that have rudimentary algorithms for placement.
EX: Terry Topple (Beginner), Constantine [the Conqueror] (Beginner)

Competent (1/0/1):
still basic, but a bit harder.
this is meant for bots that incorporate basic tactics (eg. basic defensive structures).
EX: Constantine [the Conqueror] (Competent)

Moderate (2/0/1 or 1/1/1):
less basic, but within reach of a player with a few wins under their belt.
this is meant for bots that incorporate standard tactics (eg. doubling up).
EX: Constantine [the Conqueror] (Moderate)

Intermediate (2/1/2-3 or 3/0/2-3):
starting to reach complex, winning is not within reach of a new player.
this is meant for bots that incorporate standard tactics and basic strategy or advanced tactics and no strategy.
EX: Constantine the Conqueror (Intermediate)

Advanced (3/2/2-3):
firmly in the realm of complex logic, winning will require effort by a skilled player.
this is meant for bots that incorporate advanced tactics and standard strategy.
EX: Constantine the Conqueror (Advanced)

Expert (3/3/3-4):
raising the bar even further, this requires serious effort by a skilled player.
this is meant for bots that incorporate advanced tactics and advanced strategy.
EX: Constantine the Conqueror (Expert)

Master (3/3/6-10):
winning now will require deep understanding of the game.
this is meant for bots that have advanced tactics and strategy with augmented look-ahead.
EX: Constantine the Conqueror (Master)

Toppler (3/3/>10):
these bots are not intended to be beaten.
this is meant for bots that pull out all the stops.
EX: Terry the Toppler (Toppler)

CHALLENGE:
this is a modifier category for bots that cheat.
EG. Caleb Clobber can place pieces on tiles owned by opponents
Cal Zone acts as though he owns every tile in a radius around the tiles he actually owns, so you can't place pieces there, even if you own the tile
